In the next demo,
we'll be creating another CloudFormation stack that builds upon the Aurora
stack using some of the resources created by the Aurora stack.
Have your folder that you downloaded from my GitHub repository handy
because we're going to be using the GlueStack.yml script.
So what exactly will be doing in this demo is to create the
second CloudFormation stack named GlueStack that will provision
and configure our infrastructure architecture needed to work with
AWS Glue and Amazon Athena.
Then we'll review the CloudFormation stacks resources, outputs, and parameters.
And then we'll verify that all assets were created that the
code instructed CloudFormation to do.
It's demo time.
From the AWS Console,
making sure you're in the same region that you were in
when you created the Aurora stack,
as well as where you uploaded the Python script to,
find CloudFormation, right-click on it, and open the link in a new tab.
Click on Create stack,
and since we've already overviewed the
CloudFormation script for the Aurora stack,
this time we're going to simply upload the YAML file
from the Select Template page.
So click on Choose File, and then choose GlueStack.yml.
Once it's in the stack creation process,
the name of the script will show to the right of the Choose File button.
Scroll down and choose Next.
In the Specified Details page, give the stack the name of GlueStack.
Notice under Parameters that the AuroraStackName,
as well as the DatabasePath are pre-populated.
The DatabasePath is the schema path for crawling the database and table schemas.
If you use the MySQL wild card DBName/% sign as you see here,
the crawler will crawl everything under the top-level database sakila,
populating the Glue Data catalog with everything underneath it.
And then in the S3DestinationBucketName,
choose a unique bucket destination name,
and I chose uniquebucketnamedestination,
but it's going to create this bucket, so you can call it whatever you'd like.
In the Options page that comes next, leave everything as it is and click on Next.
In the Review page,
look over everything and make sure that everything is the way
you want it to be and there's no errors,
and then click on the little checkbox next to the words that
read I acknowledge that AWS CloudFormation might create
Identity and Access Management resources.
Clicking that saves so much time because AWS provides
this option because if it didn't,
you would be spending a whole lot of time writing the IAM roles and policies
for each AWS service to interact with other AWS services.
So check that, and then click Create.
Once the GlueStack has a status of CREATE_COMPLETE,
if you check the little checkbox next to the GlueStack,
you can see all of the major resources that the GlueStack created,
such as the IAM Role, a Glue Connection,
a Glue Database, a Glue Crawler, a Glue Job,
and the destination S3 Bucket.
If you click on Outputs, you see all of the outputs that the GlueStack created.
Pretty much most of these are giving names to some of the resources,
but it also includes our S3 bucket name.
If you click on Parameters,
you see all of the parameters that went into creating the GlueStack.
So let's look at some of the primary resources that were created.
Go up to Services, and either start typing in the search bar Glue,
but if it's in your history, whichever way you get to it,
right-click on it and open the link in a new tab.
When it loads, it loads in database view,
and you can see right here is our sakiladb database in the
Glue Data Catalog that so far doesn't have any tables in it
because we haven't run any crawlers.
If you click on Connections, here's our Aurora connection,
and if we click on that, you get more information about it.
If you click on Crawlers, and then click on the Aurora crawler,
you get more information here as well such as the
database in the Glue Data Catalog, the Table prefix,
the Connection, and the Include path.
If you click on jobs, here's our Aurora job.
If you check the checkbox to the left of the job name,
you get four different tabs of information.
The History tab lists all the times that this job has run.
If I click the radio button, you can see that for that particular run,
I can view Metrics, but let's just click on the Run ID.
This gives you more information about that run and that job,
where you can navigate by these two links to
CloudWatch Error logs and and Run logs.
Going back to the main job window, and then clicking on the Details tab,
you can see that it has the Script location,
that Job bookmarks are enabled, the Parameters,
which is the destination bucket, and the Connection information.
Let's click on Script.
This is the Python script that we uploaded to our S3 bucket,
and right from the job interface, you can edit the script.
In the next section, I'll elaborate on each of these Glue assets,
what they're going to do in the rest of the module, and the configurations that are important about each asset.